# Design Structure
This readme is a quick overview of the structure of our app will be structured so that we can all be on the same page when it comes to where to put things and how to name them. This is a work in progress and will be updated as we go if we find any issues or have any suggestions. It just seems like a good place to start.

Generally, the following items should be the only things that we change. Editing files outside of these is not recommended. Most of them have been automatically generated by flutter and changing them can cause major issues to the entire app.

- lib:
  > Where all of our code is located. It contains the `main.dart` file which is the entry point of our app. I have detailed how we will structure this directory in the next section.
- assets: 
  >This folder will contain all of our assets, such as images, fonts, and other files that we need to load.
- pubspec.yaml: 
  >This file will contain all of the information that we need to build our app and will be how we add new libraries.
- test:
  >This folder will contain all of our tests.
- firebase.json:
  >This file will contain all of the information that we need to connect to our firebase backend it shouldn't need much editing.
- database.rules.json:
  >This file will contain all of the rules for accessing the firebase database.
- README.md:
  >This file will give an overview of the app and its functionality.
- .gitignore:
  >This file will contain all of the files that we don't want to be tracked by git.

## const Folder
---
All of the unchanged values will be here.
These are not going to be changed very much and will be the same globally. 

### Example:

```dart
const String APPLOGO = "assets/logo.png";
```

## controller Folder
---
This is the business end of the app. Usually each view will have its own controller that handles the data and performs the functions. Each Controller should be in its own folder to keep it organized.

## models Folder
---
This is where our models(templates in c) are stored. Each model should be in its own file.

### Example:

These are some things that we would want to make into a model.

- User
- Notes
- Calendar
- Days for the calendar.
  
## services Folder
---

This is where we store our services. These are functions that do things like authenticate users, crop images, play audio, and so on.

## utils Foler
---

This is where we will store small functions that don't typically involve any objects and only accept normal types (String, int, etc...).

### Example:

- A simple function that formats a phone number.

## views Folder
---
This is where we will store our UI elements. The views folder is further broken down into smaller components.

### pages

>While they can be called many different things like `screens` or `views`, we will call theme `pages` here in our code. 

Pages refer to the screens that are displayed to the user. Each page should be separated into it's own folder. We will use the following naming convention for the `.dart` files:

> <\*pageName\*>_page.dart

The page name should be the same as the folder name and should be all lowercase.

### Themes

This is where we will store our themes with each theme being a separate file. The theme should contain colors and text styles that are used throughout the app. Each theme should have the following colors at a minimum:
- primaryColor
- backgroundColor
- accentColor
- textColor

#### Some things to remember:

1. Do not use colors that could confuse the user. 
   > Red (`0xFFFF0000`) text is not a good idea because it is usually used to indicate an error (unless you are actually indicating an error).
2. Make sure that the chosen text color can be read by the user on all of the background colors.
3. Make sure text is big enough to be read.
4. Make sure all fonts can be read in all text colors and sizes.

### Widgets
---
This is where we will store any custom widgets that can be used globally or is on more than one page.
#### Example:
- Buttons
- TextFields
- Dialogs
- Popups


## ALso...
- Be sure to comment your code. Be as descriptive as possible, but keep it brief. 